#summary Specifications for a R widgets.

= Introduction =
Rwidgets are children of OWRpy class. These widgets bring the functionality of R to Orange. 
Each widget performs an independent task and there are 3 types of tasks in the workflow:

=Import=
These widgets are the start of any workflow.
===Input===
No widgets connect upstream. 
===Output===
Bring data into the ROrange environment and send it downstream.
===GUI===
 # present a GUI for user selection of the input data
 # Give a visual cue of the data being loaded
 # Show some summary of what has been loading and sent downstream



=Process=
These widgets connect together in a logical workflow to manipulate and transform data. 
===Input===
they take as input data from other widgets
===Output===
send downstream transformed data
===GUI===
 # present a GUI for user selection of transformation parameters
  * this maybe automatically done using some intuitive logic, but must be visualized indicated 
 # Give a visual cue of the data being processed
 # Indicate the processing in complete and data has bee sent downstream
===On Upstream Change===
When a widget upstream makes a change this widget should indicate that its data is obsolete. 
===On Session Load ===
When a previously saved session is loading this widget should:
 # check if on save the processing was successfully completed
  * Else load in default state
 # Update GUI to previous state 
 # Send processed data downstream


=Output=
These widgets present transformed data for meaningful interpretation. Or export data to other formats. 
===Input===
they take as input data from other widgets
===Output===
this widget terminates the workflow
===GUI===
 # present a GUI for user selection of visualization parameters
  * this maybe automatically done using some defaults, but must be visualized indicated 

===On Upstream Change===
When a widget upstream makes a change this widget should indicate that its data is obsolete. And visualize the new data if possible without user input. 
===On Session Load ===
When a previously saved session is loading this widget should:
 # Update GUI to previous state 









